Preliminary note

Workmanship standards 
The following switchgear assemblies and distribution boards 
have to be executed as low voltage switchgear assemblies as per DIN EN 61439-1/-2/-3 (DIN VDE 0660-600-1/-2/-3), PSC with design verification by test, derivation or calculation.

Additional performance instructions:
For each project, the installation of meters and panels 
has to be approved by the system operator prior to the realization.
The works have to be carried out according to the rules 
of the trade. To do so, the current versions of standards
have to be applied as a minimum.
The structural dimensions, which are relevant for the assembly of the distribution board have to be checked at the place of installation.
The ambient temperature at the place of installation must 
not exceed 40°C.
Each switchgear assembly has to comply with the form, degree of protection, type of construction and panel separation and/or size set out.


Calculation conditions
The listed descriptions form part of the calculation and of the contract.
They are included in the descriptions of the individual installations and equipment and have to be complied with 
even if they are not referenced to in detail.
The assemblies have to be offered with the entire requisite system accessories and small parts, completely disassembled and fully operational.
Utilities have to be calculated including necessary connecting terminals.
Fitting screws and rings, screw caps, safety inserts have to be included in the calculation of the unit prices, supplies of safety inserts are to be specified as accessory kits.
The registration to the low voltage grid as well as the provision and assembly of system operator converters have to be accounted for in the calculation.
Ancillary services pursuant to VOB / part C are included in the price.
The calibration/adjustment of trigger devices, etc., controls, commissioning and the preparation of associated protocols 
have to be included in the calculation.
The revision documents, test verifications, test certificates for the connection of outgoing circuits, etc. will not be remunerated for separately but have to be included in the calculation of the unit prices. 



Electrotechnical equipment
For switchgear assemblies with several different supply systems separate cabinets or appropriate separations have to be provided for the individual grids. 
A space reserve of not less than 25 % has to be provided for later equipment installations.
Parts of the switchgear assembly which may be energized after switch off have to be covered separately and to be labelled accordingly (DIN VDE 0660-514).
There must be a uniform type of control voltage for all devices  
(voltage to be agreed to with client).
Devices installed to doors are to be covered by protective caps    IP 3x.

Busbar system
The busbar system has to be made of electrolytic copper. All busbar connectors have to be maintenance-free over their entire service life.
The main busbar system has to be arranged in the back of the panel in a separate functional space.
In each panel busbars have to be identified as per 
DIN EN 60446 (VDE 0198):
Phase conductor        L1, L2, L3
N conductor                N
PE/PEN conductor     green/yellow

Installation
Switchgear assemblies have to be supplied in transportable units and have to be installed to a fully operational state with all 
their small parts and fastening materials at the intended location.
Specified dimensions including depths and widths of the panels 
have to be complied due to existing design plans for channels / support frames.
Assemblies have to be installed and escape routes to be dimensioned 
as per DIN VDE 0100-729.
The installation of the switchgear assembly is made to a 
double bottom frame.
All assembly rails and sheets, cut-outs and small items required for subsequent subsequent performance descriptions have to be included.

Cables and rail connections
of sections below 16 mm² have to be installed to terminal blocks.
Neutral disconnect terminal blocks have to be used.
Terminal blocks and devices have to be arranged under separate  
removable covers.
Cable and/or rail entries have to be possible from the top and from the bottom. To fasten the cables, cable fastening rails have to be 
installed to the panels.
Special attention has to be paid to the following elements  
when dimensioning cable shunting and wiring spaces:
-Use of specific cable types as provided for by the system operator, 
-later extensions / modifications when in use
The strain relief per cable to be connected be connected has to be sufficient.
Connection lines to doors will be realized using flexible  
H07V-K cables in a protective conduit with two-sided strain relief.

Documentation
revision reports have to be submitted in 3 copies  
including all verifications pursuant to the above-named standard.
The incoming section of the assemblies (depending on the grid system)  
has to be equipped with a massive document holder 
presenting the current state of the flow diagrams.
A name plate with the manufacturer’ data according to the above standard has to be arranged to the door of the incoming supply.


Conformity and test certificates
Prescribed checks are documented in a routine verification.
The ASSEMBLY manufacturer has to maintain and evidence a certified quality management pursuant to EN/ISO 9001.
Further qualifications as specified below have to be verified by conformity declarations:
-Maintenance-free rail connections,
-Touch guard according to DIN EN 50274 
(VDE 0660-514 Protection against electric shock).

Technical uncertainties / changes of the project execution
As provided for in VOB, part B, the contractor has to check every type of planning document submitted by the client and which is related to the performance of the works.
If conflicts are discovered during the execution of the specifications, they have to be accounted for in the submission of the offer, e.g. by way of a supplement.
At any rate, technical uncertainties e.g. in case of changes  
in case of changes to the project execution have to be coordinated  
with the design team prior to their realization.


Maintenance / service
Maintenance and service personnel is to be trained.
Operating and maintenance instructions are submitted during the acceptance of an assembly.
As provided for in DIN EN 50110-1 and BGV A2, electric installations are to be checked in recurrent fashion.
In the interest of accident prevention, to meet the obligations of the owner and in order to ensure a long service life of the system,  
the conclusion of a maintenance contract between manufacturer and owner is recommended. Such contract, however, will have to be concluded outside the scope of specifications.


Warranty
The warranty period for the systems to be assembled amounts to
2 years after VOB
The manufacturer has to record and keep available all 
documents and data related to individual low voltage 
switchgear and control gear assemblies for a period of 10 years.
The identification is made by an ID number to be specified 
on the name plate / assembly. (e.g. order number).


Distribution panel system up to 850 A with modular flat packs
The modular flat packs for distribution panel systems are fitted to a continuous mounting frame which may be removed from the cabinet for assembling and wiring.
The touch guard covers are to be made of plastic RAL 7035 with captive 90° press-and-turn closures,
the touch guard covers have to be lead-sealable, wire holders which snap-in into the holes of the DIN rails have to be used for wiring.
The modular system panel has to be executed as per drawing #: ............ .


Remark:
The created text is based on rules and regulations used in Germany. 
If you like to use these document in other countries, 
you are responsible to adapt the text to the local regulations.


