81L 1122PPPP090
Coupling module replace_date

General technical remarks

Workmanship standards
The following switchgear assemblies and distribution bo
ards have to be executed as low voltage switchgear asse
mblies
DIN EN 61439-1, -2 (DIN VDE 0660-600), NSK with design
verification by testing, derivation or calculation.

Additional performance instructions:
For each project, the installation of meters and panels
has to be approved by the system operator prior to the
realization.
The works have to be carried out according to the rules
of the trade. To do so, the current versions of standa
rds have to be applied as a minimum.
The structural dimensions, which are relevant for the a
ssembly of the distribution board have to be checked at
the place of installation.
The ambient temperature at the place of installation mu
st not exceed 35øC.
Each switchgear assembly has to comply with the form, d
egree of protection, type of construction and panel sep
aration and/or size set out in the specifications.
Switchgear assemblies may only be built once they have
been approved by the client / planner.
The front view showing the equipment configuration and
a general circuit diagram have to be submitted for appr
oval.

Calculation conditions
The listed descriptions form part of the calculation an
d of the contract.
They are included in the descriptions of the individual
installations and equipment and have to be complied wi
th even if they are not referenced to in detail.
The assemblies have to be offered with the entire requi
site system accessories and small parts, completely dis
assembled and fully operational.
Utilities have to be calculated including necessary con
necting terminals.
Fitting screws and rings, screw caps, safety inserts ha
ve to be included in the calculation of the unit prices
, supplies of safety inserts are to be specified as acc
essory kits.
The registration to the low voltage grid as well as the
provision and assembly of system operator converters h
ave to be accounted for in the calculation.
Ancillary services pursuant to VOB / part C are include
d in the price.
The calibration/adjustment of trigger devices, etc., co
ntrols, commissioning and the preparation of associated
protocols have to be included in the calculation.
The revision documents, test verifications, test certif
icates for the connection of outgoing circuits, etc. wi
ll not be remunerated for separately but have to be inc
luded in the calculation of the unit prices.

Electrotechnical equipment
For switchgear assemblies with several different supply
systems separate cabinets or appropriate separations h
ave to be provided for the individual grids.
A space reserve of not less than 25ÿ% has to be provide
d for later equipment installations.
Parts of the switchgear assembly which may be energized
after switch off have to be covered separately and to
be labelled accordingly (DIN VDE 0660-514).

There must be a uniform type of control voltage for all
devices
(voltage to be agreed to with client).

Devices installed to doors are to be covered by protect
ive caps
IP 3x.

Busbar system
The busbar system has to be made of electrolytic copper
. All busbar connectors have to be maintenance-free ove
r their entire service life.
The main busbar system has to be arranged in the back o
f the panel in a separate functional space.
In each panel busbars have to be identified as per DIN
EN 60446 (VDE 0198):
Phase conductor L1, L2, L3
N conductor N
PE/PEN conductor green/yellow

Power factor correction systems
Power factor correction systems have to be executed pu
rsuant to:
EN 60439-1 for capacitors;
power factor correction systems have to be executed as
modular systems (extendable)
Capacitors have to be executed as low loss (0.2W /kVAr)
systems and without PCB.

Installation
Switchgear assemblies have to be supplied in transporta
ble units and have to be installed to a fully operation
al state with all their small parts and fastening mater
ials at the intended location.
Specified dimensions including depths and widths of the
panels have to be complied due to existing design plan
s for channels / support frames.
Assemblies have to be installed and escape routes to be
dimensioned as per DIN VDE 0100-729.
The installation of the switchgear assembly is made to
a
Double bottom stand.
All assembly rails and sheets, cut-outs and small items
required for subsequent performance descriptions have
to be included.

Cables and rail connections
of sections above 16ÿmmý have to be installed to termin
al blocks.
Neutral disconnect terminal blocks have to be used.
Terminal blocks and devices have to be arranged under s
eparate removable covers.
Cable and/or rail entries have to be possible from the
top and from the bottom. To fasten the cables, cable fa
stening rails have to be installed to the panels.
Special attention has to be paid to the following eleme
nts when dimensioning cable shunting and wiring spaces:
-Use of specific cable types as provided for
by operator,
-later extensions / modifications when in use
The strain relief per cable to be connected has to be s
ufficient.
Connection lines to doors will be realized using flexib
le H07V-K cables in a protective conduit with two-sided
strain relief.

Documentation
Documentation and revision reports have to be submitted
in 3 copies including all verifications pursuant to th
e above-named standard.
The incoming section of the assemblies (depending on th
e grid system) has to be equipped with a massive docume
nt holder presenting the current state of the flow diag
rams.
A name plate with the manufacturer' data according to t
he above standard has to be arranged to the door of the
incoming supply.

Conformity and test certificates
Prescribed checks are documented in a routine verificat
ion.
The manufacturer of the low voltage switchgear assembly
has to maintain and evidence a certified quality manag
ement system pursuant to EN/ISO 9001.
Further qualifications as specified below have to be ve
rified by conformity declarations:
-Maintenance-free rail connections,
-Touch guards as per DIN EN 50274
(VDE 0660-514 Protection against electric shock).

Technical uncertainties / changes of the project execut
ion
As provided for in VOB, part B, the contractor has to c
heck every type of planning document submitted by the c
lient and which is related to the performance of the wo
rks
If conflicts are discovered during the execution of the
specifications, they have to be accounted for in the s
ubmission of the offer, e.g. by way of a supplement.
At any rate, technical uncertainties e.g. in case of ch
anges to the project execution have to be coordinated w
ith the design team prior to their realization.

Maintenance / service
Maintenance and service personnel is to be trained.
Operating and maintenance instructions are submitted du
ring the acceptance of an assembly.
As provided for in DIN EN 50110-1 and BGV A2, electric
installations are to be checked in recurrent fashion.
In the interest of accident prevention, to meet the obl
igations of the owner and in order to ensure a long ser
vice life of the system, the conclusion of a maintenanc
e contract between manufacturer and owner is recommende
d. Such contract, however, will have to be concluded ou
tside the scope of specifications.

Warranty
The warranty period for the systems to be assembled amo
unts to
2 Year after VOB.

The manufacturer has to record and keep available all d
ocuments and data related to individual low voltage swi
tchgear and controlgear assemblies for a period of 10 y
ears.
The identification is made by an ID number to be specif
ied on the name plate / assembly. (e.g. order number).

Coupling module 
(as described in the preliminary remarks)

to be fitted with circuit breakers of the type
ABB device_type, device_poles -pole,
Fixed, front connection,
with all necessary traverse 
and busbar holders to fit two 
main busbar system 185 mm behind each other,
touch guard with cut-out for breaker

Make: ABB STRIEBEL & JOHN
Type: article_type
Dimensions H/W: height / width_coupler mm

